everybody welcome to another episode of
AMA I am here to answer your questions
today thank you guys so much for joining
me and if you're a regular watcher of
the show you'll notice that we're on a
different set today we are on the final
leg of our holiday journey here and the
team will be joining us again for the
next one but for now we're on this set
and I'm gonna be using a laptop a little
bit different than what we normally do
but hopefully it will be just as amazing
as it is always so thank you guys so
much for joining me for tuning in if you
have a question be sure to drop it into
the feed my man chases always while
remote is going to be submitting your
questions so in fact we have one to
begin with right now let's dive into
this bad boy and it is a question from
Andrew Scott's Co in the connecting box
which by the way if you guys don't know
about the connecting box if you ever
have a question that you want to ask and
you want to submit it ahead of time you
can send it to connect had impact theory
dot-com all right his question is to
call in two figures who have influenced
my thinking Cal Newport and Peter
Diamandis how do you reconcile their
seemingly contradictory messages about
purpose passion Newport talks about
developing passion versus uncovering it
whereas demand Diamandis talks about
finding your massively transformative
purpose all right so I've read Cal
Newports book it actually had a big
influence on the way that I think about
passion and is amazing by the way and I
highly recommend it for anybody that
hasn't read his books so good they can't
ignore you and I'm sure that you've
heard me say that phrase a thousand
times which comes from my boy the
comedian oh god why can't I remember his
name gray hair hilarious
wow that is really weird so anyway from
the comedian who is so famous I'm gonna
punch myself in the mouth at the end of
this episode for not remembering he
talks about how you can cultivate your
passion which is a huge thing for me at
least as I use the words now I know
Peter very very well and I can tell you
that while they use different words they
very much mean the same thing so Peter
does not see himself as an archeologist
at all and if you look at what he's and
I say archaeologists what I'm talking
about is there are two ways as you
outlined in this question to really
think about your passion you've got
somebody who views themselves as an
archaeologist who's turning inward
they're digging to find something that
has always been there they're uncovering
this thing that this beautiful jewel
that's been hidden inside themselves
forever and somehow they didn't see it
up until that moment and then you have
people who realize that they are
architects and they have to build the
thing that they want Peter is very much
of the architect variety and if you look
at what he's doing with his kids in
terms of introducing them to a lot of
things trying to spark their curiosity
in fact if I remember right I asked
Peter about that and he said the one
thing that he wants to do isn't force
feed his kids any one thing in
particular it's simply to make sure that
they're curious that they have a love of
learning and from that you can infer
what he's really trying to do is give
them that first thing that starts you
down a path of really finding the things
you like and this is where it slips
directly into Cal Newports work finding
things that you resonate with through
exposure and then by really engaging
with something you realize whether or
not it's something that is going to turn
into a full-blown fascination those are
my words not Cal Newports and then from
the fascination you go down a process of
gaining mastery now this is very much
Cal Newports work you go through a
process of gaining mastery and in that
process of gaining mastery you find out
whether something is a passion or not
and see even there I slide into those
words find which is sort of inevitable
and I think that that's why you it
sounds like Peter and Cal are saying
different things we're all just
conditioned with this notion of find and
there is a process of that discovery
through the process of gaining mastery
but it really is through that engagement
through doing that you're seeing whether
or not you're getting the emotional
response that you want now the reason
that Newport talks about needing to go
through a process of gaining mastery to
turn it into a passion is because you've
got to recognize the connection between
getting good at something and the
emotional neurochemical reward that you
get from I worked my ass off to gain the
skill I worked really hard to get good
at this thing and it has real-world
benefit and that emotional cycle of whoa
I worked really hard for this and it has
world implications which goes back to
the ancient Greek notion of techne which
is a skill set that I busted my ass to
get they don't use that phrase but you
get my meaning
I busted my ass to get this skill set
and it has real use to other people and
I think that if you put Cal and this is
admittedly me guessing but I think if
you put Cal and Peter together that they
would both be like yeah 100% that's
exactly how the process goes and it
really comes down to verbage so yeah
that's it and looking at Peters own life
his obsession with space and being
somebody to help usher in a positive
future to help society really adapt to
that and use these technologies in a way
that is uplifting to humanity that
wasn't something that he was born with
that was something that you know it was
through his early interest in rocketry
and then really engaging with that and
that moment of wonderment of watching
the space program come to life all of
that stuff comes together and you get
the person that you see today but it was
very much a process of first just
encountering something which you could
call the exploration phase but then from
that cultivating something that is that
passion Fanning those flames getting
good at Bizness in Peters instance and
and really having to develop that skill
set and it's that process of gaining
mastery in which he realized that he
really had a full-blown passion for it
and so to bring it all round that's why
Peter uses the not uses but that's why
he's with his kids he's trying to create
an infatuation with learning and from
that that cycle begins so those two
things aren't in congruous to me at all
in fact I went through a very similar
journey of really changing the wording
that I was using but realizing that
there's nothing in congruous about those
two things if you really understand the
neurological process that we all go
through to create something now at some
point I would like to create a piece of
content specifically around the how of
Fanning the flames of passion that's
something that people have asked me
about and it really is a mechanistic
process that I go through to do that and
so one day probably not today but one
day we will need to create something
around that all right Steve Martin chase
came to my aid and it was probably
whole time thank you chase I'm deeply
saddened by your physical absence today
but very grateful to have you in the
slack feed all right next question is
from Raghav Rastogi this is from YouTube
which approach is better Gary V's go
all-in and learn stuff through trial and
error or Tai Lopez's mentor and a book
approach I think you need both to be
quite frank and I will i would get
mentors whenever and wherever humanly
possible but if you don't understand
that the very next step and this is what
ty did so I very much doubt ty would
disagree with this you need to actually
go and do it so for those of you that
don't know Ty's story one check out the
episode that we did with him was great
he found a mentor in the field of
farming who himself and I'm forgetting
his name right now Jill salad and I
think went on to be very successful in
his own right
assuring in I think it's organic farming
I think yeah there's something else in
there that's very very popular right now
that he was one of the earliest adopters
of so ty go starts learning from him and
then realizes that there's a deal on the
table that joel is gonna pass on and ty
says let me do that which is to go open
his own farm so he asked joel to lend
him money if i remember right lend him
some money so that he could start that
and then he had a particular deal worked
out with joel but it gave him a chance
to actually run the farm and to learn
about all of the things that he needed
to really get his hands on to figure out
and so that process of first mentor and
then Total Immersion I think is is the
ultimate combination and I think both of
them would agree with that I mean even
just looking at at Gary's life he
started working in his actually that's a
lie cuz he started with baseball cards
and all of that
maybe they would disagree I don't know
it's interesting so to me it's the
combination of both get a mentor if you
can and then immediately move into full
immersion so yeah I would do both and in
fact it may be Peter that has the law I
think it is I think it's one of Peters
laws when given a choice between two
things take both that would very much be
my advice in this case all right next
question is from Charles rose on
Facebook my question is have you ever
disregarded one of your bright lines and
if
so how do you deal with that internally
yes there's disregarded as maybe not the
right word but like there are times for
instance I have a bright line that I get
out of bed within ten minutes of
realizing that I'm awake and there have
been times where I will miss it by a few
seconds so as I'm standing up I'll see
the clock change to the 11th minute and
I I do a light form of punishment around
that mentally and emotionally and this
is something that people really have to
get good at so the easiest way to
explain it is on the positive side so
self congratulatory behavior I think
it's really important for people to
learn how to do very effectively you
need to be able to congratulate yourself
when you do something well so if I get
out of bed in my ten minute window where
that bright line is then you need to say
like hey well done you said you were
gonna do it and you did it and that
needs to be something that you say and
repeat and if you don't then you need to
punish yourself and I know people get
really weird about those words but I'm
just telling you what works so I'm not
passing moral judgment on whether it
should work I'm just telling you the way
the human mind is work the way the human
mind works if you have a little bit hey
[__] you said you were gonna get
up and you didn't and that's shameful
and I do a thing where I forced myself
to admit it so I will go and tell my
wife hey you know I said I was gonna get
out of bed in ten minutes and I didn't
today and it's it's I want to say never
which is almost certainly accurate but
just in case I'll hedge my bets and say
it's almost never because I just go [__]
it it's because I played with fire and I
thought I can get away with this and
then oh I'm probably getting up close to
it and then I jump up now another area
that I use bright lines is food I'm
pretty religious about food so the
honest answer is I almost never break a
bright line unless I have a reason that
I've decided ahead of time when I'm what
I call emotionally sober so I don't in
the moment go oh now you can break that
bright line I wouldn't do that that's
not my thing so like when I fast the
bright lines the bright lines so the
last time that I did it fast actually
the let's go back to the time before
that so the time before my most recent
fast in the middle of the night I of the
second day I had the most brutal
headache you can imagine
and I couldn't sleep because of it and I
really wanted to take Advil but I didn't
know if advil had calories and so I felt
like I'd be violating my bright lines
and I thought I would rather suffer than
break my bright line so it's interesting
as I'm thinking through this the answer
is no don't break your bright lines that
is going to be problematic you're gonna
lose credibility with yourself now ahead
of time I will decide something so for
instance over the Christmas holiday Here
I am
I raised my calories and I actually had
a piece of pie which was pretty amazing
and so but I had decided ahead of time
that I was going to do that so while yes
my standard bright line if I don't cheat
on my diet I don't have I have a certain
set number of calories that I'm gonna
happen that's that I decided okay over
the holiday break that I was going to
take my calories up and so it's been as
planned the reason that I don't break my
own bright lines is because you lose
credibility with yourself which is one
of the single most damaging things you
could ever do to yourself is to not
believe in yourself so you really have
to cultivate that belief but it needs to
be earned needs to be done with small
wins this is one of the reasons that
even forgetting the physical benefits
and the health benefits to working out
for me especially because I don't like
it I earn credibility with myself every
day by showing up in the gym I said I
was gonna do it and Here I am I'm doing
it
and so that's really really important
and I think that doing things that break
or that caused you to lose credibility
with yourself are incredibly dangerous
because of the knock-on effect that it
has on the rest of your life so for
instance if I were going to set a 2018
Year's resolution which I'm not by the
way because I don't really do
resolutions I try to be doing them
constantly all the time all the time all
the time but if I were going to set a
resolution I would be a very careful
about what I said it because I don't
want to said it's something that I think
I might not follow through on because
then I would lose credibility with
myself so it needs to be something I
really care about and then second once I
said it dude I am NOT going back on that
so that means that other things may fall
by the wayside that are more important
to me which is why I'm so so careful
about setting them so for instance I
often
we'll do an IG store huh god I forgot to
IG story again I'm gonna bite this
microphone so chase since you're
listening I will say we need a better
system for my IG story reminders if you
can help me work that out I'd be
eternally grateful but I often IG story
while I'm in the gym and whilst I I did
that one time and somebody wrote to me
and said yeah I see you in the gym a lot
but where are those gains and the honest
answer is working out isn't important
enough to me to push as hard as I would
have to push to make additional gains so
my answer did was very simple I don't
work hard enough in the gym to get gains
so there it is I'm in a maintenance mode
from working out for me it's the health
benefits it's the maintenance of the
physique that I do have but I know where
it falls in my list of priorities and so
if something like if sleep comes into
conflict we're working out I'll sleep if
preparing something doing something for
the business comes into conflict with
working out I will do the thing for the
business because I know what my
priorities are so you need to know what
your priorities are you need to be
honest with yourself and when somebody
says why aren't you making gains don't
[__] yourself the answer is it's not
important enough you're not putting in
the time in the energy there you have it
there's no like oh I work really hard
now you don't understand like my
genetics don't know no [__] I just
don't put into work that's the truth so
but like with the business which behind
only my relationship is the single most
important thing in my life that gets my
time and energy so know where things
fall adjust your bright lines
accordingly set resolutions accordingly
because like for instance I was tempted
my wife would be interested to hear this
I was tempted to set a resolution about
playing guitar which is something that I
did for fun long ago and would really
enjoy getting back into but the truth is
I ran through my list of priorities and
all the things that it would collide
with it's very low in the list and I
know that I'm not going to be able to
I'm not willing to dedicate the time to
it in order to get good so I'd never
make myself that promise all right there
you go and chase says he will help me
with the IG story Thank You chase okay
next question is from Susan heat and
this is on Facebook what if you honestly
have no idea what your passion purpose
is even after seeking exposure and
looking deep within
I have a hypothesis
Susan and that hypothesis goes like this
there is something you like and enjoy
and you're judging yourself for it and
because of that you never explore it so
I believe and I always use video games
as the example here because I really
enjoy video games
I love playing them from my very first
exposure to video games in fact let me
walk you through a brief story when I
was like I don't know a Nintendo came
out when I was eight or nine I asked my
parents for one and my mom is here and I
hope she's listening I asked for a
Nintendo and every birthday and
Christmas I thought I would get it for
sure and I would look for any box it was
even remotely the shape of a Nintendo no
no no no no my parents kept saying
you're not gonna have it
they thought it was antisocial they
thought was gonna rot my brain whatever
like parents thought about video games
back then so I really didn't get one for
years and years and years and finally
when I was 12 my mom said if you want a
Nintendo then you have to buy it
yourself now a hundred dollars to a
twelve-year-old kid that was basically
like ten thousand dollars and so I had
no idea how I was gonna do that my uncle
owned a door Factory
and he said well you can come work for
me and so I went and worked in a door
Factory and if I remember right I worked
for two dollars and 10 cents an hour and
it took me basically half of a summer to
make enough money to buy the Nintendo as
soon as I got the money I wouldn't quit
now that's how much I like video games I
was willing to work in a door Factory
have no much idea how much I hate manual
labor so I did that to get my Nintendo
and I quit immediately once I had it and
I started playing now in playing video
games I realized man I really love this
but I could never do anything with this
it's gonna rot my brain all the normal
[__] so I never pursued that and I
went down the path of pursuing film and
through doing that realize holy hell I
really love this thing now as an adult I
returned to video games and realize I
really enjoy it I no longer have
judgment on myself as to whether or not
it could be something that I could make
money at or whether it makes me a good
person or a bad person I don't give a
[__] whether to what other people think
I know that I really enjoy it but the
truth is in engaging in getting good in
going down the rabbit hole of actually
practicing and trying to improve my
skills I realize
have passion for it so I'm not
interested in trying to develop a
passion around that because I don't get
enough out of it to fight through the
boredom and the just like relentless
amount of hours that you would have to
put into it so when I think about the
number of hours it would take me to get
truly great and I project out to okay
let's say I'm one of the greatest in the
world doesn't give me what I want and
the answer is no so I think where people
get stuck is like I did as a kid I
thought well I could never do anything
with this it could never be a meaningful
source of income it would never give me
the things that I want as a person like
that's where people stop and they never
really reengage with it and go through
the process of trying to get better and
it's in the process of trying to get
better that you're going to turn it into
a passion or not so that's a hypothesis
and if you were here we could really
dive into it but of all the people I've
ever met in my life that's been the vibe
that I've gotten that if they really sat
down and went after something and didn't
judge themselves and when they found
that thing that they were interested in
stopped worrying about what their family
thought they stopped worrying about
making a lot of money and they just
asked themselves is this something that
as I get better at it I will feel better
about myself I will be excited about my
time when I project myself out into the
future of what this would look like if I
was one of the best in the world would
that even in the daydream does that give
me the thing that I want emotionally so
that's my gut but I'd have to sit down
with you to go any further than that
all right next question is from Dean
Botha hey Tom I've been running my side
business for a year now while working my
day job
I've only been giving and not asking in
this side business which is my passion
my question now is when would be a good
time leaving the stable job to then
climb in fully with the side business
and take the risk or with regard to
finances so my answer to this is
unfortunately it's it's nuanced if you
can you want to make the side business
profitable and able to sustain you at
least at the lowest level of what you
can get by on so to give you an idea I
went from making 150 thousand dollars at
awareness technologies and when we start
a quest I cut that down to $50,000 and
because that was like I can get by I'm
not
to be able to leave my house but I'm
gonna be able to pay my property taxes
and my bills and all of that stuff so we
had just run the math we had to get rid
of a car and all that so we cut our
lives down to the quick we decided we
were never gonna go out for
entertainment food and stuff like that
we literally just stayed at home and
built a business so I didn't need to
make back what I was making at awareness
but I needed to make enough to pay my
bills so once we figured out what that
number was and we were able to you know
put in austerity measures and our own
lives and really tighten the belt we
were able to make it work and so for
about two years we were you know sort of
on subsistence wages since that was two
of us living off 50k in LA but we made
it work
so that is what you have to figure out
once you're making that then I say jump
over now there are people who will tell
you to burn the ships of the shore and
look there is a moment where that may
may be what you need to do if especially
you're finding that it's just taking so
much time and energy on your normal
thing then you might want to roll the
dice and try it because look at the end
of the day if you're good at your job
you can get your job again
so I wouldn't live in a state of
paranoia around that which is where most
people live their lives they think oh my
god I can never get back here they're
paralyzed by fear that to me just
shouldn't be something that you're
fearful of unless you're actually not
good at your job and if you're not good
at your job then I am very terrified
that you won't be good at running your
company so there is that realistic
danger to be faced but that's what I
would do
cut your life to the quick transition
over as fast as humanly possible but
there's no need to burn the ships of the
shore if you don't need to if you don't
have some very pressing reason to do
that all right next question is from Mia
lavoy hey Tom I'm newly passionate about
my growth mindset unfortunately I'm in a
family predicament if it were you would
you choose to stay home and take care of
your dying parent whoa and their
dilapidating off-grid country property
oh and their dilapidating off-grid
country property so they can function or
would you consider their graves dug for
themselves and go out to pursue your own
dreams and career in another
State Wow okay so I'm gonna I'm gonna
give you the real answer what would I do
if that were my mom or dad okay so
here's the truth what you're gonna need
to do is you're gonna find a way to do
both so going back to Peter Diamandis is
law when given an option between two
things do both so you're living in a
world where I hope the Internet is gonna
come to your rescue here and that you're
able to do both certainly you can
produce pursue a growth mindset from
wherever you are and I would look at
taking care of them as part of that
growth mindset like make bigger demands
on yourself right so step one of a
growth mindset can do anything you set
your mind to without limitation you just
have to be willing to put in the hard
work to gain those skills so how is it
that we're gonna take care of mom and or
dad and the property by the way it's
totally irrelevant so if one of the
things that we need to do is move them
with us then let's do that
so I certainly wouldn't hesitate to do
that so the person who is dying does not
get to make all the rules
but being cognizant of your own desire
to be compassionate to love them to take
care of them I fully get that so I would
not leave my parents somewhere to just
fend for themselves I would bring them
clothes I would do whatever I needed to
do in order to start building the
business or whatever I'm assuming I'm
painting myself onto your picture here
but I would do that so I would do as
much as I could like maybe staying at
their house is actually less expensive
than it would be for me to go somewhere
else and if I can do things in the
business that's amazing if they're in
some backcountry place then chances are
that your living expenses are next to
nothing and I would begin to really
schedule my time so what when do I need
to be there just purely for them
emotional like how much time do they
want to start the day there do they want
to end the day there how much time goes
into the actual sort of mechanics of
taking care of them food preparation
things like that I would carve out that
time I would schedule it and then I
would schedule the time for building the
business actually executing against the
business whatever that is and really map
all that stuff out and then I would also
figure out financially what I needed to
earn in order to bring someone else in
to help because at the end of the day
the only part of taking care of my
parents
that I personally care about doing
myself would be the emotional support to
be there to listen to spend
with them to make them feel my love so
that they really understood on a deep
emotional limbic level that I cared
about them I wanted them to be happy I
wanted them to be comfortable I wanted
them to find some profundity in their
final days rather than just eking out an
existence but this is one of those times
where absolutely you have to make the
demand of yourself to do both I think
that the binary decision making here is
is absolutely a mistake now the more
terrifying question for me is what would
I do if the person at a grotesquely
fixed mindset and death was like just
this really horrific emotional
experience for them as they begin to
decline and they're trying to drag me
down and what was me and all of that
that is actually harder to answer and I
would say that in that God the honest
answer is I would go on a I don't know
enough about it I'm not in this
situation it is brutally difficult let
me couch couch couch and just say that
Jesus had nothing but compassion for
somebody who's actually going through
this and I really hope that I never have
to go through this but here's my gut
instinct follow my thinking follow my
logic and see if it makes sense for you
I've heard way too much about if
remember this is for somebody who's
really struggling mentally and
emotionally with the process of dying so
first of all if you can't afford it
there are chaplains and things that help
people through this thing that'd be
amazing so I would start there see if
somebody who's very experienced in this
can come and help give some perspective
second I've heard way too many good
things about psychedelics and people in
the process of dying and so I would
really begin a drip campaign to get my
parent to try it
and it's odd but you're its hardest to
affect those closest to you so
ironically there are hundreds of
thousands of people around the globe
that listen to my advice my parents not
so much so this is one of those times
where I would try to get somebody else
who was an expert in the field to really
make that suggestion all right I find
this question fascinating I could really
go down this rabbit hole I will leave it
at that and move on to the next one
thank you for that question very out of
left field and wonderful okay next
question is from Ambrose kook this is
YouTube what are some of the things you
see is binary and what are others that
you see are necessary to have balance or
middle ground oh I need way more
specifics on that chase so if they
submit some then I can answer it
otherwise it's it's just too abstract
give me like a concrete something all
right next question is from Brian M this
is YouTube hi Tom few years ago I got
into a field that I loved but recently
it seems like the honeymoon phase is
past and I find myself wanting to leave
every time ruff challenges come any
advice yes so you're gonna have to work
backwards you need to figure out what
happened so this is like romantic love
to me the the exact same thing which is
why you're using the metaphor of the
honeymoon phase being over the exact
same thing happens in relationships so
let me tell you what my wife and I did
in our romantic relationship and then
you can see and I will walk you through
how it exactly correlates to a passion
so one you need to understand that it is
a neurochemical state love so it is
going to come and go there are going to
be times where you feel it and they're
going to be times where you don't and
over a long enough period of time those
cycles really begin to change so in the
beginning even in the honeymoon phase
there's gonna be highs and lows and in
fact I will say that the honeymoon phase
is often marked by mania of ultra highs
ultra lows and it's that intoxicating
rollercoaster that people really love
now over time that tends to mature into
something deeper but more calm it
doesn't have the cocaine like effect
that early love has which by the way
literally mean that if I remember the
study correctly you actually can't tell
the difference between somebody who's on
cocaine and somebody who's having that
first that manic love state of new love
so it's pretty fascinating how hardcore
that chemistry is that I think is
inevitably going to evolve into
something else which all liken to
something more like oxytocin vasopressin
which so vasopressin is trust oxytocin
is that like that comforting bonding
sense that you get so you put those two
together there's there's the sense of
like deep well-being when you're with
your significant other so that compared
to the mania of the beginning of the
love cycle so now you're in this phase
now that I think also begins to diminish
over time as what what I refer to as
dust settling on the
lationship so you have these arguments
these arguments tend to build up by the
way Lisa and I do a show called
relationship theory if you're not
already watching that go live on
Wednesdays at 10:00 a.m. on Facebook
only but we talked about this stuff so
does settling on the relationship over
time that really begins to change the
way that you think about that person and
this is why you know 30 years into a
marriage oftentimes somebody can piss
the other person off with like a look or
by the way they swallow soup or what I
mean you hear all this crazy [__] so
that's people that they're not
addressing that issue so when it happens
to fully resolve it and fully let go and
move on right or to really address it
like if it's a collision of values so
you get down to a collision of values
are you really addressing that so now
let's take it into the business world so
you go into your job you're loving it oh
my god this is amazing
but but my managers a bit of a prick
okay and at first like not a big deal
because I really love what I'm doing so
you sort of ignore it or the company
goals aren't quite aligned with what I'm
about but you know what that's all right
I really dig my you know that the
outcome that my team whatever it is that
you're holding on to that thing that
you're passionate about so but over time
all of the realities around you are
beginning to sort of collapse in on
themselves becoming more and more of a
pain in the ass and that's almost
certainly what you're reacting to or
maybe like I'll give you an example so
back when I was at awareness
technologies we had a governmental sales
cycle and I just learned about myself
b2b is not where I shine I absolutely
hate not knowing who I need to convince
not understanding what they're
responding to whereas b2c which is when
the business sells direct to a consumer
that I get because I understand people
and I'm fascinated on I love building
community and all of that so that's
incredibly meaningful to me so that I
understand that I want to be a part of
so even if I could have enjoyed being in
the software business I absolutely
despised selling to companies and
governments so beginning to be beaten
down by that long sales cycle and never
understanding why somebody says yes or
somebody says no is then painted back
over because I actually had I still do
have a passion for technology absolutely
love tech so but that was painting back
on the thing that I actually enjoyed
about it so beginning to realize that
there are all these
influences that have absolutely nothing
to do with the thing so in professional
sports we see this a lot like once
money's involved it's not you're not
just playing for the love of the game
anymore then it's about like you know
did I hit my points is the coach putting
me in enough for the other players
passing the ball so that I can get my
bonuses like it becomes a totally
different ballgame Hey so that's you
have to understand that stuff now once
you understand what the things are that
are putting that inward pressure on your
passion you can begin to tease them
apart and deal with them in real time so
one of the things I am just fiendish
about now is principles by Ray Dalio and
so we're putting that into practice in
the company because what I really don't
want one of the things that I found
deeply emotionally distressing at Qwest
so we got to 1400 employees absolutely
insane it was wonderful it was like the
best of times the worst of times because
when you have that many employees if you
don't have the infrastructure culturally
and systematically quite frankly it
becomes a real nightmare to have the
kind of positive impact on people that
you want to have so I realized there was
something I needed to learn that I had a
deficiency that had to be addressed and
principles is that it is radical
transparency it is radical openness now
I don't want to go down that rabbit hole
I just want you to understand that that
was me looking at something that I loved
and was amazing but then started to
diminish in joy because I realized I
haven't solved some other problem that
has nothing to do with what my mission
was of the company which was to end
metabolic disease so here's this like
human component thing that I hadn't
mastered that I didn't understand well
enough and now it was encroaching on the
passion part so you really have to
figure out what those things are that
are causing those problems and deal with
those other things okay I will leave it
there I could keep going on that next
question is from Michael
Marcelino on Facebook hey man my
question is how do you remain confident
with your goals and ambitions when
everybody else thinks you are crazy I
have this 24/7 I'm a vlogger and
entrepreneur I'm going to sell my first
online course this year and when I tell
my family my goals they just think I'm
crazy okay so first of all that's
amazing congratulations doubt is one of
the most potent acute motivators meaning
it is like for brief periods of time
leveraging that when you're like really
feeling beat down it's just brutal and
you can't imagine going another step in
your business leaning on that knowing
that people doubt you knowing that you
absolutely will not let those people be
right and you're going to get up and
drive yourself for it now living there
and spending more than 20% of your time
in the dark side I think is a mistake I
think you want spend 80% of your time in
the beauty and the things you're gonna
create all the people that believe in
you the good that you're gonna do the
world the things you're grateful for all
of that should be 80% of your time so
80% of the time you're waking up you're
pushing a hard you're doing all of that
because of all that amazing stuff that
you want to bring to the world that you
want to get better all of it 20% of the
time however you want to think about the
people that are on your [__] list the
people that doubted you the people that
heckled you all of that and you want to
crush them yes I'm going to use nice and
aggressive language you want to win you
want to defeat them all of that stuff is
incredibly powerful and I don't
understand people that don't try to
leverage that because it is insanely
useful but it's insanely useful in small
dosages so for very acute things use
that now how do I deal with it I don't
give a [__] the truth is you've got to
understand something deep and
fundamental you're not yet good enough
that's what they're responding to but
don't worry about that worry about who
you can become in the price you're
willing to pay to get there so when
people doubt me part of it is I put them
on a list and I think about it and I
know that I will pull them out when I'm
really feeling like I just can't go
anymore
on the other hand I'm thinking about the
fact that they're right and you need to
have the humility when hecklers are
coming after you they almost always go
after something real remember that
people don't heckle you for stupid [__]
that isn't true they're coming after you
lean in they're coming after you based
on something real and here's the truth
Michelle Michael Michelle one of the two
you really aren't good enough let that
sink in now that doesn't matter because
you're only not good enough yet you can
get good enough you can become the
dominant force in the industry and
anybody that tells you that is too
crowded just like they told me what you
need to realize is you just have to
outperform everybody else and to
outperform them you have to get better
than them and if you're willing to do
more work to gain more skills to
practice to look more naked Lee at your
inadequacies to understand that the
hecklers probably have something real to
offer you and that you simply need to be
willing to separate the message from the
messenger look at what it is really
assess whether it is true or not and if
it is true to address it through the
acquisition of skills that is my highest
piece of advice to you now to do that
you have to build yourself esteem around
something that is anti fragile meaning
the more that is attacked the stronger
you get so when people tell me that I'm
dumb my only question is in what way
because once I understand how I'm
deficient where my thinking is wrong
what I can add to my skill set then I
can actually improve and get better
because they've gotten rid of a blind
spot for me so I'm eternally grateful to
people to doubt me so that's really
important but you have to change your
self-esteem you've got to be so stoked
on yourself for being the learner you've
got to be amped up every time you're
willing to accept that hey they might be
right you've got to have that humility
to take in that criticism and not let it
break you because that is how you get
better that's how you get better but
most people don't want to hear the
criticism they don't want to hear the
attack they don't want to accept that
they're not good enough they want to
sing Kumbaya and tell themselves that
I'm really am great I'm special all that
[__] here's the reality
you [__] average that's the truth and
now can you build something on top of
that that makes you capable of the
extraordinary and if you're willing to
put in that work if you're willing to
accept that by nature you're just
another one but that you can become
extraordinary if you can do that if you
can look naked ly at that and if you can
push yourself
brutally hard to gain the skills that
you need to become capable
the extraordinary you will win as Kobe
Bryant said boos don't block dunks it
doesn't matter what people think about
you it doesn't matter how many people
hate on you it doesn't matter how many
people criticize you it doesn't matter
how many people tell you that you're
crazy or that it can't be done it only
matters if you believe in your ability
to adapt enough that you'll put in the
work to get the skills and then go
execute that's it
nothing anybody says can ever stop you
only you can stop you if you don't
believe that you can get better all
right I love that question thank you all
right next up Nelson Chan this is on
Facebook hey Tom what are your thoughts
and results you've had with Mo Dias all
right
mo Diaz for those who don't know I'm on
the board of Mo Deus health so take
everything I say with a grain of salt
because I can no longer be trusted
here's the truth I think that what so
what they're doing is vestibular
stimulation I think it is absolutely
amazing and every paper that comes out
is mind-blowing but that's on paper so
now how does it play out in the real
world my gut instinct this is a [__]
guess I need everyone to hear that this
is a guess I need everyone to know that
I am financially incentivized for this
guest to be right but I actually believe
this so my guess is it's gonna work
really well for some people and not for
others so I used it I've used it quite a
bit and it's in the placebo range for me
meaning I absolutely cannot tell if this
is me wanting to believe that it works
or it actually working but then there
are people who are very heavy and
they've gotten results that just looking
at the numbers it's too big to be
placebo so the jury's out I think this
is one of the things people have to try
for themselves I got involved with a
company because they offer a 100%
money-back guarantee that was critical
to me I said I wouldn't get involved
unless I did that so try it if it works
for you rad keep it if it doesn't work
if you get your money back so I think
that that's I think it's the spectrum I
think it's gonna work for some people
and not for others I don't know why it
works for some people we've got all
kinds of studies that say why is it all
real men or is it total [__] I have
no idea so
riot if it works rad if it doesn't get
your money back that's the only true
answer alright by the way if this is
adding value to you please do share it
that would be amazing that's how we
continue to grow this community and by
the way for all of you that asked what
you could do how you can help that's the
answer
share this help us grow this community
that would mean the world to us so hit
that share button right now that would
be amazing thank you guys and if you're
listening to this on the podcast
whatever your podcast app of choice is
go give us a review that would be
amazing especially in iTunes that would
be incredible go drop in a review give
them five stars that would be incredible
guys thank you all right next up Steven
Davis this is on YouTube I'm 22 years
old and have wanted to be rich since I
was 8 I watch a lot of your content and
my only question that you haven't
already answered is how did you improve
yourself discipline at 22 well sure we
got the number 22 is interesting I
probably said that at some point so here
here was the realization that I had at
probably roughly 26 I'm sad that it was
that late and that was that I had goals
and I said that I was moving towards him
one of mine at that age happened to be
debt rich and the other was I want to
feel good about myself now I didn't
realize that I want to feel good about
myself it's actually driving my behavior
whereas my goals were not so I would
occasionally do something that was at
least visually in line with my goals but
behind the scenes I was always doing
things that made me feel good about
myself so I remember one day arguing
with the guys would ultimately become my
business partners who at the time were
just my bosses and I was arguing for my
idea because it was my idea and I wanted
it to win so I wanted to feel smart and
they made me feel really stupid and I
finally and I by the way in my head I
knew that this was going to move the
company backwards I knew it was the
wrong answer and I kept arguing and
arguing arguing and finally they were
like okay actually yeah you are right
let's do it your way and I thought oh
[__] like I just convinced them of my
idea even though I know my idea is wrong
so what am i doing like do I actually
want to get rich do I actually want to
move towards my goals or do I just want
to feel good about myself and I realized
I want both and the reality is I need to
feel good about myself that's just true
and the thought of living in a world
where I'm moving towards my goals but I
absolutely feel like [__] about Who I am
as a human being that sounds
horrific so I've no interest in doing
that so instead what I'm gonna do is
flip what I build my self-esteem around
to being built around being a learner
being willing to admit when I was wrong
being willing to look at my inadequacies
and that was one of the only epiphanies
that I've ever had in my life everything
else has been sort of this slow
meandering thing where I'm putting
things together and even that if I'm
completely honest is almost certainly
the amalgamation of a bunch of things
that I've been reading about and hearing
about from people that are respected up
to that moment and the lightning-rod
moment was simply that all of a sudden
it all made sense but that was that's
the one thing that I will call it true
Epiphany and once I switched that then
the self-discipline came out of I
actually want to move towards my goals
and I began to have this I didn't have
these words back then but a growth
mindset and so I just thought whoa like
as I'm willing to accept I'm not good
enough as I'm willing to accept that I
started hopelessly average but that I
can learn and that if I'm willing to
push myself and I can gain these skills
and here's the most important part and
this is the genesis of all of my
self-discipline the skills that you gain
have real-world consequence meaning they
actually do something that brings to you
things that you want and if those things
are fulfillment great if they are
helping someone you love great if they
are building a big business great if
it's getting rich great all of those
things though they're a result of
gaining a skill that now allows you to
do something and I'm gonna give you one
that I bet most of you don't even think
about the ability to walk is
extraordinary
you had to learn it the ability to talk
literally shapes your brain and makes
you capable of taking over the planet as
the most dominant apex predator of all
time you had to learn that so there are
all these things that we learn to do
that we absolutely take for granted but
to me highlight the fact that humans are
the ultimate adaptation machine so once
you realize that really truly you can
acquire new skills that you did not have
before and that those skills have
real-world implications when you're
actually good at them that's when all of
a sudden the discipline comes out of
man like I'm trying to do something and
I know that it's really going to allow
me to be more powerful and I define
power as being able to close your eyes
envision a world open them and create
that world that is power if you're not
excited by that if you're not excited by
the thought that you right now wherever
you are in a small village in India
somewhere right now if you aren't
intoxicated by the notion that you can
gain power the ability to manifest your
dreams simply by working your ass off
and acquiring new skills like I'm not
your guy I can't help you
that is so intoxicating me and so
exciting to me that I don't need to
convince myself to be disciplined I want
that thing so badly then I'm gonna do
whatever it takes to get it within my
code of ethics of course but I'm gonna
do whatever it takes to get that thing
that to me is where discipline should be
born out of it should be born out of
excitement all right next question this
one comes from Daniel Conrad on Facebook
how do you use self signaling what are
some actions what are some actions I can
take to make self signaling more
effective with things like t-shirts
signs etc man this feels like a plant so
self signaling let me just back up and
explain what it is so when you try to
tell people who you are whether it's the
Apple computer with the logo that faces
out whether it's with the shirt that I'm
wearing this says be legendary whatever
working out in the gym and having a
physique whatever it is you're trying to
tell other people something about
yourself the way that we dress is one of
the most obvious way they wear your hair
the way you do your makeup what
piercings you get these are all things
you use to signal to other people who
you are in the way that you think now
what you don't realize is in that
process you're actually signaling more
loudly to yourself through a process
called self signaling because every day
you're reinforcing some ideology and
yourself so if you're gothic out you're
reinforcing that notion in your head if
you're you know like me wearing a be
legendary shirt or you're wearing sure
this is everything is my fault or anyone
the things that we make by the way so
this is like an extended commercial but
if you realize that in putting that
stuff on you're not just signaling to
other people you're reinforcing ideology
and yourself then you begin to realize
how you can use it so I wear this shirt
or I wear that everything is my fault
shirt to remind myself and in fact we
haven't already released it which we may
have in fact Chase is going to tell me
if we've already released it but we have
we're working on prototypes of shirts
that are written backwards so that you
see it in the mirror as a reminder to
yourself more than to anybody else which
is a really cool idea that I think my
wife came up with she's certainly been
the driver behind making sure that these
get done I love that idea I think it's
really really cool and that to me is is
one of the most important things you
will do in your life it's the ideas you
repeat in your head
so in fact I was just reading today I
was so hoping that this would come up
and I could share this with you guys I
was reading an article today about
depression being more an issue of the
mind than the brain I don't know if this
is true but it was really fascinating to
me and what they meant was the the
concepts that you repeat in your head
the ideas you become obsessive about the
things you think about over and over and
over create this cascade I'm gonna put
words in their mouth now that's sort of
what that's what they said and now I'm
gonna draw my own hypothesis that that
begins to create these neuronal networks
in your mind neurons that fire together
wire together and so whether you obsess
about gratitude that network then
becomes very rapidly accessible whether
you obsess about something negative then
depression that network becomes rapidly
lit up and so you just find yourself
there over and over and over in fact
that's the first thing that boots up
when you wake up in the morning is that
depression loop kicks in and now you're
back in that place
now how much that is the mind and it's
just what you obsessively think about
and how much that has a physiological
component which comes first I don't know
I do know though that there seemed to be
elements of both so pretty interesting
to me that a notion like self signaling
could work its way into your mind so
intently that it actually begins to
shape your brain that is certainly the
place that I approach it from and that's
why self signaling is so important to me
that's why I feel good about pushing our
merch yeah because I'm not gonna sell
something that I don't believe in that I
don't think is helping people isn't good
for them which is why the only things
that we sell in my mind are very
uplifting very empowered
which is a big deal to me so that's how
I use self signaling yes I do it through
clothes but honestly the most important
part of self signaling is what do you
repeat to yourself in your head so what
do you say to yourself when you fail
what do you say to yourself when
something is hard right all of those
things those ideas you repeat what are
the people that you hang out with what
are they saying
like the people that you choose to hang
out with is a form of self signaling so
yeah super critical that's how I use it
okay next up Adrian cubby hey Tom
despite having a growth mindset I can't
seem to find the solution to my
addictions yet such as sex and sex and
emotional eating mainly how would you
handle addictive behaviors such as these
Thanks
the honest answer is I would get
professional help so I don't have an
addictive personality so I'm probably
not the right person to ask this
question too because addictive behavior
from the outside seems insanely potent
so I would find somebody that really has
experience with this that can walk you
through it not to think oh I can just
muscle through this but get as much help
as you can with people that really
understand this they've been through it
they can give you the tips and tricks to
get through that so one of the things
that I found interesting about
alcoholics is they say that if you don't
do the 12-step which is helping somebody
else in their recovery that is never
gonna stick so there's an interesting
inside there but I will officially pass
a baton to somebody far more capable of
answering that question than I okay this
one is from over do you Oh Priya hey Tom
if I may ask
how can I learn to say no I know it is
related with the fear of being rejected
that comes from when I was a child but I
still carry that baggage to this day
okay so first of all it's understanding
that being selfish is absolutely fine
that selfish is not a dirty word that
hopefully you have people in your life
that you feel very connected to and
obviously you want to do amazing things
for them but that ultimately it goes
taking care of yourself first and then
taking care of others so I love doing
things for other people it's one of the
things that I feel like I'm wired for
and that I've fed into and really
cultivated in my life but at the end of
the day everybody falls in line behind
what I'm trying to accomplish in my life
that is the truth man and I don't feel
bad about that in the least we all get a
life to live and
so if we live a life that first and
foremost makes us feel fulfilled I think
we're on the right track now to me
humans the way that we are wired
fulfillment is going to come from
busting your ass to acquire a set of
skills that make you feel good about
yourself and live in service of other
people so getting good at something
that's really gonna fulfill you
ultimately I think will end up being an
act of service but like look at me I've
got multiple cameras pointed at me right
now there's nothing more arrogant than
putting a lot of cameras on yourself and
thinking that you have something to say
but I really believe that the things
that I'm saying are helping people and
so it makes me feel good about myself so
this is one of those things I'm
definitely doing for me I'm doing for
the way that makes me feel about myself
and doing exciting these grand goals
Popey lab of matrix and all that I want
to build a huge company make a lot more
money in all of it but I do it all in
service of other people I believe that
the content that I make actually helps
people I believe that the merge that we
sell actually helps people all of that
makes me feel good about doing it and
pushing it hard so the more that I push
the more that I build the company more
that I try to get out there the better
it makes me feel about myself because
from a deep sense of fulfillment
perspective I believe that I'm gaining a
set of skills that allows me to help
other people so now if somebody comes
and wants me to do something that isn't
in alignment with those things that I'm
doing that gives me this deep sense of
fulfillment and helps other people is
very easy for me to say no so it really
comes down to just accepting that it's
okay for you to be selfish especially
because the human mind has the
protective mechanism of the things that
are gonna make you feel best and most
fulfilled are almost always in service
of other people so there you have it all
right next question is from Erica Lou hi
Tom I love you and Lisa thank you that
is very kind thank you for the
positivity and inspiration one thing I'd
like to work on in 2018 is letting go of
ego as hard as it is to admit I care
what other people think and a rude
comment or remark can damper an entire
day as well as take up mental space what
do you have to say about that and not
care thank you so I wouldn't waste a lot
of time worrying about not caring about
what other people think I would really
think about whether or not you have a
growth mindset so in a growth mindset if
somebody says something that's hurtful
you're able to really look at that and
say is it true and if it is true awesome
they've just eliminated a blind spot
from you
rather than being torn up about it it's
not a permanent state and that's the
important thing it is not a permanent
state so if somebody points out
something to you that is true and is
hurtful
awesome leverage that emotion now this
is Ray Dalio talking pain plus
reflection equals progress pain plus
reflection equals progress so you first
need that painful impulse so okay that
sucks that stings Wow I didn't want to
hear that but you know what actually I
do want to hear that because now I'm
aware of something that I wasn't aware
of a minute ago and now I can accept
that I'm not good at that but I'm only
not good at that yet or I'm only that
way right now and I can change if I so
desire to get better at that thing and
for me knowing that I could get better
at that thing if I choose to it put me
in control it allows me to let go of the
hurt and move forward and now it's like
hey you're aware of something here's a
reality man I want everyone to really
let this sink in whatever hurtful
painful thing that that person just said
to you brace yourself for this one boys
and girls whatever hurtful painful
things that person just said to you the
entire rest of the world is already
aware of it with me the entire rest of
the world the people that interact with
you they're already aware of it so they
just haven't said anything and this is
why I am obsessed with principles so the
book principles by Ray Dalio is about
one simple fact you need people that
will tell you the truth the brutal
honest truth because the fact is you're
gonna be wrong and you're gonna be wrong
a lot you're gonna be wrong about your
business gonna be wrong about yourself
you're gonna be wrong about myriad
things and so you need input from other
people that you trust that have
believability
in that area so this isn't about
believing everything everyone tells you
but this is about really looking at what
people have to say wanting the truth
more than you want to protect your ego
and in fact I will say it's about
building your ego around your
willingness to stare at your
inadequacies your willingness to accept
that you're not good at everything your
willingness to accept somebody's
criticism to look at it to see if it's
actually real and if it is real to make
immediate and lasting change in your
life that is
what the ego should be it should be
built around that that hey other people
would hear that comment and they would
stop at the hurt they would shut it down
the psychological immune system would
kick in and they would find a way to
discredit the person speaking to say
that's not true about me and to continue
to bury their head in the sand and be
blind but you my friends dear listener
dear viewer right now the thing that is
going to allow you to become capable of
the extraordinary the reason that you
are a part of this community the reason
that you identify as an impact Avista is
because you're willing to stare at your
inadequacies to accept them and to
understand that you can eradicate each
and every one of them by gaining a skill
that has utility by getting better
that's what this is all about it's about
actually improving yourself it's about
actually getting better at something
that's the key when you realize that
like it's not about not caring about
what people think you may care even more
because you want the truth it's about
getting to the truth because the truth
is efficient it's about getting to the
truth because the truth is efficient
it's the thing that's going to allow you
to actually identify what's wrong
improve get better and once you get
better going back to what I was saying
earlier once you get better you can
actually influence the world and when
you can influence the world you can
close your eyes imagine a world open
them and actually make that world come
true that's power but it starts with
being willing to accept the truth all
right
next up this is gonna have to be the
last one this is from Tommy King I have
a lot of anxiety being 50 starting
college for the first time and taking
care of a family in your opinion what is
the best way to decimate and/or cope
with anxiety stress of expectation Tommy
first of all you inspire me to no end
being 50 and starting college is amazing
so here's what you're gonna do
anxiety is about obsessing over a future
that hasn't happened you're imagining
how poorly things can go you're
imagining walk
into the room and everybody thinking
that you're old and judging you for it
and laughing don't worry about that
think about this what happens when you
walk in that room I have the chills
you walk in that room and you learn
something new and that something new
becomes a part of you and now you're
able to do something you weren't able to
do before and now you can influence the
world in a way you couldn't influence it
before and now you can imagine
accomplishing your dreams because you
actually have the skill set to execute
against it you know what to do
to actually build that thing think about
being an architect who manifests their
dreams in the most real way possible but
first they have to learn about
architecture they have to learn about
engineering they have to understand
what's gonna build a building that's
going to last have to learn all of those
things first nobody is born an architect
it's learned so walking into that room
who gives a [__] what people think
who cares if they're making fun of you
click over into the growth mindset and
understand you were there to gain a set
of skills and it does not matter boos
don't block dunks it doesn't matter what
other people think there's no sense in
having anxiety around that because you
can learn you are a human every human
being can learn even people with
tremendous deficiencies including
traumatic brain injuries are able to
learn and adapt maybe not at the same
rate I get all of that I'm just saying
it is possible that is fundamentally
what we are wired to do so you're going
to go into that room and you're going to
focus on the thing that you can control
which is your amount of effort it may
take you longer who cares
it's just about getting that skill and
if you know about yourself that you're
going to stick with it there's no reason
to have anxiety it doesn't matter
literally I could walk into a classroom
where every day the first 10 minutes of
the class were [__] make fun of Tom
people laughing it doesn't matter you're
there to learn focus on what you're
going to learn focus on its usability
and hopefully that will take care of
everything else now there's a whole host
of other things that go around with
anxiety I don't want to cheapen that as
somebody who has struggled profoundly
with anxiety I know how deep that rabbit
hole really is but for now that's the
important thing that's going to combat
your anxiety don't worry about that
future
of all the things that could go wrong
obsess over the things that are in your
control that you're going to make sure
go right alright guys that's it for
today thank you so much for joining me
thank you for submitting your questions
I love them beyond measure you can't
imagine how grateful I am that you take
the time to submit them if this added
value to your life please do share it
that would be absolutely amazing and if
you haven't already be sure to go over
to shop that impact theory calm self
signal yourself to empowerment get some
merch alright guys thank you so much for
joining me and since I won't speak to
you before New Year's have a very happy
new year
crush it in 2018 finish 2017 strong all
right guys if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary
take care